---
layout: post
category: app
title: Dotfiles and SCM
---

All my dotfiles are stored in a SCM. Most of the time I'm on my main computer, but I can be working on a server or a different workstation. In this case, I like to have all my configurations for zsh, vim, screen, etc.

So, instead of copying my files over different computers, I put everything in a private repostiroy, and when I'm on a new computer, I just have to checkout it.  If I do a modification on a machine, I just need to commit it, and I can have the modification everywhere else.  

I've got a $HOME/dotfiles directory, which is versionned (with git in my case). All my configurations file are stored here.

In this directory, as I'm avery lazy person, I've created a Makefile. Each time I create a new file, I add it to the makefile at the same time. The content of the Makefile is the following: 

bc. DOTFILES := $(shell pwd)
all: shell  code perl plagger web
shell:
ln -fs $(DOTFILES)/zshrc          ${HOME}/.zshrc
ln -fns $(DOTFILES)/zsh.d       ${HOME}/.zsh.d
ln -fs $(DOTFILES)/inputrc      ${HOME}/.inputrc
ln -fs $(DOTFILES)/screenrc     ${HOME}/.screenrc
ln -fns $(DOTFILES)/screen      ${HOME}/.screen
ln -fs $(DOTFILES)/profile      ${HOME}/.profile
ln -fs $(DOTFILES)/gnupg          ${HOME}/.gnupg code:
ln -fs $(DOTFILES)/vimrc           ${HOME}/.vimrc
ln -fs $(DOTFILES)/gvimrc        ${HOME}/.gvimrc
ln -fns $(DOTFILES)/vim          ${HOME}/.vim
ln -fs $(DOTFILES)/ackrc           ${HOME}/.ackrc
ln -fs $(DOTFILES)/gitignore ${HOME}/.gitignore
ln -fs $(DOTFILES)/gitconfig ${HOME}/.gitconfig
ln -fs $(DOTFILES)/psqlrc        ${HOME}/.psqlrc perl:
ln -fs $(DOTFILES)/proverc    ${HOME}/.proverc
ln -fs $(DOTFILES)/pause      ${HOME}/.pause
ln -fs $(DOTFILES)/perltidyrc ${HOME}/.perltidyrc
ln -fns $(DOTFILES)/module-starter ${HOME}/.module-starter plagger:
ln -fns $(DOTFILES)/plagger ${HOME}/.plagger web:
ln -fns $(DOTFILES)/irssi                 ${HOME}/.irssi
ln -fns $(DOTFILES)/vimperator  ${HOME}/.vimperator
ln -fs $(DOTFILES)/vimperatorrc ${HOME}/.vimperatorrc
ln -fs $(DOTFILES)/flickrrc       ${HOME}/.flickrrc
ln -fs $(DOTFILES)/rtorrent.rc  ${HOME}/.rtorrent.rc

So next time I want to deploy my dotfiles on a new computer, I can do

{% highlight vim %}
make all
{% endhighlight %}

or
 
{% highlight vim %}
make perl code vim
{% endhighlight %}

and I can start coding some perl with vim.
