---
layout: post
category: misc
title: new job
---

I've worked nearly four years at "Linkfluence":http://linkfluence.net/. This summer I'll leave this job to start a new one at "Say Media":http://saymedia.com/.

This has been an awesome experience for me. I've learned a lot of things, worked on really interesting projects, and worked with an awesome team.

h2. Linkfluence is hiring

Linkfluence is always looking for developers to join the team. If you want a Perl job in France, and want to work on interesting topics as:

 * social media monitoring
 * web crawling
 * data indexation
 * data visualization

Linkfluence is the company you want to join. Send your C.V to Camille Maussang (Linkfluence's CTO): camille.maussang at linkfluence.net if you're interested.

h3. Technologies at Linkfluence

We're using a lot of technologies to solve our various problems:

 * Solr and ElasticSearch for indexing content from various social media (blogs, tweeter, etc)
 * "Riak":http://labs.linkfluence.net/nosql/2011/03/07/moving_from_couchdb_to_riak.html to store the content
 * a *lot* of Perl (and not the Perl of your grand mother, but Catalyst, Moose, DBIx::Class, Dancer, perl-5.12, ...)
 * Redis for caching
 * PostgreSQL

h3. Open Source at Linkfluence

Developers here are encouraged to contribute to open source projects, to publish code on GitHub, to talk about the things they do.

The company also send the developers to various open source conferences:

 * YAPC::Europe
 * FOSDEM
 * Belgium Perl Workshop
 * French Perl Workshop
 * OSDC.fr

You're encouraging to talk at those conferences, and you can prepare your talk during work time. Linkfluence is also working closely with the French Perl Mongueurs, and try to organize some events with them (technical meeting, Dancer hackaton, etc).
 
h3. Science at Linkfluence

Most of the developers in the company are coming from a scientific background. Some of them still publish scientific papers on subject like social media and graphs analysis.

 * "Stabilité globale et diversité globale dans la dynamique des commentaires de Flickr":www.liafa.jussieu.fr/~prieur/Publis/TSI2444-RauxPrieurV2.pdf (Raux, Prieur, 2011)
 * "Describing the Web in less than 140 characters":http://www.icwsm.org/2011/index.php (Raux, Grunwald, Prieur, 2011)
 * Essai de géographie de la blogosphère politique française (Cardon, Fouetillou, Lerondeau, Prieur 2011)
 * "Two paths of glory - Structural positions and trajectories of websites within their topical territory":http://www.icwsm.org/2011/index.php (Cardon, Fouetillou, Roth 2011)
 * "Clustering based on random graph model embedding vertex features":linkinghub.elsevier.com/retrieve/pii/S0167865510000413 (Zanghi, Volant, Ambroise)
 * "Strategies for Online Inference of Network Mixture":lbbe.univ-lyon1.fr/annexes/franck.../SSB-RR-14-online-estimation.pdf (Zanghi, Picard, Miele, Ambroise)
 * Approches modèles pour la structuration du Web vu comme un graphe (Zanghi)

If you want to work with clever people on some interesting topics like graph, and help them to implement solutions or experiment some algorithm, you'll feel at home here. 
 
h2. futur for me

I'll move to San Francisco this summer to start my new job at Say. I've a lot to do before moving, but I'm very excited with this new opportunity. Sadly, I'll probably miss YAPC::EU, but I should do YAPC::NA next year \o/.
